==================================================================
LINUX:
========

If you follow the "Installation" instructions on the TISEAN website,
you may get an error message that tells you to install gfortran --
which you can do, for instance, with

   apt install gfortran

When you compile using gfortran/gcc, you'll probably get a bunch of
errors.  Most of them can be ignored, but you may need to change line
50 of source_f/cluster.f from:

    999  if(iv_io(iverb).eq.1) write(0,'(a,i)') "matrix size ", np

to have the length of the formatted integer specified, e.g.:

    999  if(iv_io(iverb).eq.1) write(0,'(a,i8)') "matrix size ", np

Regarding the pyTisean wrapper: check out these github repos...

https://github.com/yidk/pytisean
https://github.com/BrianGlassman/pytisean

FYI the github repo for PyTisean is more up to date than the PyPi
version (which gets installed by default when using pip).  The github
version can be installed with

    pip install git+https://github.com/bogeholm/pytisean.

[[Aren't computers wonderful???  <not>]]

Windows:

Just download the binaries and run them from the Windows command
prompt.

Some folks have gotten TISEAN to work by copying the executable files
in the Bin folder of the Windows TISEAN Package and using the command
prompt through MatLab's system( ) function.  

For example if 'mutual.exe' and 'datafile' are in the current
folder, we can run:

  system('mutual datafile -o output')

which creates the 'output' file in the current Matlab directory..

==================================================================
MAC:
=====

Download the binaries from the Tisean website, then install them and
fire up a Terminal window.  Navigate to the Tisean folder to run the
commands.  You may need to use the ./ syntax - i.e.,

./mutual datafile -o outputfile

rather than just mutual datafile -o outputfile.

Sadly, if simply downloading the binaries doesn't work for you and
you're not a unix hacker who can go under the hood using the Linux
instructions above, you may want to consider using the CSEL version.

'brew tap brewsci/science' followed by 'brew install tisean' has
worked in the past on Macs, but leaves the commands prefaced by a '-'
... i.e., 'tisean-mutual'.  Unfortunately, that stopped working in
early 2022 because of backward compatibility issues with a new python
release and I'm not sure if it's fixed yet.  

If you do get it working, please please let me know so I can update
this help doc!

==================================================================
In the CSEL:
=============

TISEAN is in /usr/lib/tisean on all of the CSEL desktops, as well as
these two ssh-accessible machines:

 elra-01.cs.colorado.edu
 elra-02.cs.colorado.edu

You can sign up for an account on these machines by going to
sac.colorado.edu and choosing "CSEL" from the dropdown.  If you have
any trouble, email trouble@cs.colorado.edu.

The IT folks were kind enough to add a shell function called 'tisean'
that will put /usr/lib/tisean in your $PATH.  Just open up a shell,
type 'tisean', then all of the tools should be available to you.

To run {\tt mutual}, for instance, you would just type the command
name and then the arguments that specify how you want to run it (e.g.,
what input data, what parameter values, how you want it to output the
data):

   mutual datafile -o outputfile

If that doesn't work, try using the ./ syntax described above:

   ./mutual datafile -o outputfile



